docs/step12_data_acquisition_diffs.md, before:

# Step 12: Data Acquisition & Diff Utilities (Optional)

**Goal:** Fetch regulatory documents and track changes between versions.

**Depends on:** [Step 1: Environment & Tooling](step01_environment_tooling.md) and prior steps if integrating with the pipeline.

## Instructions
Refer to [Master Scaffold](master_scaffold.md) for stub modules and test skeletons before beginning this step.

1. Synchronize the Common Rulebook (CRR) or similar sources:
   ```matlab
   reg.crrSync();
   ```
2. Generate diffStruct reports between document versions:
   ```matlab
   diffStruct = reg.crrDiffVersions('versionA','versionB');
   reg.crrDiffReport();
   ```
3. Review HTML or PDF diffStruct outputs for changes.

## Function Interface

### reg.crrSync
- **Parameters:** none.
- **Returns:** none.
- **Side Effects:** downloads the latest corpus to `data/raw`.
- **Usage Example:**
  ```matlab
  reg.crrSync()
  ```

### reg.crrDiffVersions
- **Parameters:**
  - `vA` (string): version identifier A.
  - `vB` (string): version identifier B.
- **Returns:** `diffStruct` (struct) describing added, removed, and changed documents.
- **Side Effects:** none.
- **Usage Example:**
   ```matlab
   diffStruct = reg.crrDiffVersions('v1','v2');
   ```

### reg.crrDiffReport
- **Parameters:** none.
- **Returns:** none.
- **Side Effects:** renders HTML/PDF summaries to disk.
- **Usage Example:**
  ```matlab
  reg.crrDiffReport()
  ```

See [Identifier Registry – Data Contracts](identifier_registry.md#data-contracts) for corpus schema references.


## Verification
- Date-stamped corpora appear in the `data` directory.
- Run fetcher tests:
  ```matlab
  runtests('tests/testFetchers.m')
  ```
  Tests handle network availability gracefully.

## Next Steps
Proceed to [Step 13: Continuous Testing Framework](step13_continuous_testing.md).

Commit message:

docs: add naming note to step guides

docs/step12_data_acquisition_diffs.md, after:

# Step 12: Data Acquisition & Diff Utilities (Optional)

**Goal:** Fetch regulatory documents and track changes between versions.

**Depends on:** [Step 1: Environment & Tooling](step01_environment_tooling.md) and prior steps if integrating with the pipeline.

## Instructions
Refer to [Master Scaffold](master_scaffold.md) for stub modules and test skeletons before beginning this step.

Consult `README_NAMING.md` and update `docs/identifier_registry.md` for any new identifiers introduced in this step.

1. Synchronize the Common Rulebook (CRR) or similar sources:
   ```matlab
   reg.crrSync();
   ```
2. Generate diffStruct reports between document versions:
   ```matlab
   diffStruct = reg.crrDiffVersions('versionA','versionB');
   reg.crrDiffReport();
   ```
3. Review HTML or PDF diffStruct outputs for changes.

## Function Interface

### reg.crrSync
- **Parameters:** none.
- **Returns:** none.
- **Side Effects:** downloads the latest corpus to `data/raw`.
- **Usage Example:**
  ```matlab
  reg.crrSync()
  ```

### reg.crrDiffVersions
- **Parameters:**
  - `vA` (string): version identifier A.
  - `vB` (string): version identifier B.
- **Returns:** `diffStruct` (struct) describing added, removed, and changed documents.
- **Side Effects:** none.
- **Usage Example:**
   ```matlab
   diffStruct = reg.crrDiffVersions('v1','v2');
   ```

### reg.crrDiffReport
- **Parameters:** none.
- **Returns:** none.
- **Side Effects:** renders HTML/PDF summaries to disk.
- **Usage Example:**
  ```matlab
  reg.crrDiffReport()
  ```

See [Identifier Registry – Data Contracts](identifier_registry.md#data-contracts) for corpus schema references.


## Verification
- Date-stamped corpora appear in the `data` directory.
- Run fetcher tests:
  ```matlab
  runtests('tests/testFetchers.m')
  ```
  Tests handle network availability gracefully.

## Next Steps
Proceed to [Step 13: Continuous Testing Framework](step13_continuous_testing.md).
